# Connect4
Connect 4 game in Java using OOP.

The games function is to allow 2 players to consecutively add coloured discs to a grid until one of them creates a pattern of 4 similar discs. The grid is of size 6x7.

The design I’ve used for the game appears to the user to begin as a sequence of pop-up menu windows, with the game itself then played within the console. I’ve used a JFrame with the conditionality ’alwaysOnTop’ to make sure each pop up is displayed on top of the main java console window. Players type in the number of the column they would like to drop their disc into, with the columns clearly labelled each time the grid is reprinted.
If a new game is chosen, a drop down menu appears allowing Player 1 to choose their preferred colour. Unlike traditional physical games of Connect 4, my design allows each player to choose from a list of 4 colours- Red, Green, Blue and Yellow. While these are currently only represented by characters in a textual grid, these options could create a more interesting GUI if it were to be developed.
Since the only opportunity for user input during the game is when each player is choosing which column to drop their disc into, I also added an option for the players to quit the game by typing 0 into the command line rather than a valid column number. If they have done this by mistake there is a cancel option which returns the player to the relevant point in the code.

To identify whether a diagonal win has been achieved we use the same method to check 4 discs at a time, however this time the check is split up into two separate loops. This is because we need to check diagonal lines with a negative slope, where the indexes take the pattern (r,c), (r+1, c+1), (r+2, c+2) and (r+3, c+3), and separately, the diagonals with a positive slope, of the pattern (r,c), (r-1, c+1), (r-2, c+2), and (r-3, r+3).
I also implemented the ability to save a game before quitting the application, and to reload a saved game. This feature only saves a single version of a game, and isn’t designed allow the user to save multiple in-progress games. I used serialization on the Disc and Grid classes to allow instances of these classes to be written as a long string, which is saved in a .txt file named ”connect4SavedGame.txt”.
This file saves an instance of the Grid, along with all of its parameters, which is why in my code the variables currentPlayerColour, p1colour and p2colour are declared at the beginning of the Grid class. By declaring them there, they are stored in the file along with the state of the Grid, allowing the main method to jump straight into the next addDisc.
